 Load the Olivetti faces dataset then split it into a training set, a validation set, and a test set.Next, cluster the images using k-means, and ensure that you have a good number of clusters . Visualize the clusters: do you see similar faces in each cluster? 
Continuing with the Olivetti faces dataset, train a classifier to predict which person is represented in each picture, and evaluate it on the validation set. Next, use k-means as a dimensionality reduction tool, and train a classifier on the reduced set. Search for the number of clusters that allows the classifier to get the best performance: what performance can you reach? What if you append the features from the reduced set to the original features (again, searching for the best number of clusters)?
Train a Gaussian mixture model on the Olivetti faces dataset. To speed up the algorithm, you should probably reduce the dataset’s dimensionality. Use the model to generate some new faces, and visualize them. Try to modify some images and see if the model can detect the anomalies.
Some dimensionality reduction techniques can also be used for anomaly detection. For example, take the Olivetti faces dataset and reduce it with PCA, preserving 99% of the variance. Then compute the reconstruction error for each image. Next, take some of the modified images you built in the previous exercise and look at their reconstruction error: notice how much larger it is. If you plot a reconstructed image, you will see why: it tries to reconstruct a normal face.